Alright, hello everyone. We have several, I think 8 or so classes, joining this call.
I'm David Cohen. We haven't met already. Hi. Oh cool. I like Boston. I see that people are together.
That's always nice. As we wait for people to join. You're probably used to this by now.
Go ahead and warm up. Your fingers or Whatever and use the chat and tell me where you are in the world right now.
I'm always curious to see where people physically are. Thanks for doing that. And then we're just gonna get people a minute or 2 to join and we'll get started.
Yeah, and I'm in, Boulder, Colorado. U.S.A, Earth, Milky Way.
That's what I like to put. I don't know the rest. If you guys, somebody out there may now.
I just counted their 9 classes joining, so we're gonna, you know.
100 plus people on the call. We have a few volunteers that have stuck their hand up in advance.
To help with this workshop. And just to give you context, so if you don't know or don't remember, I'm 1 of the founders of Techstars itself.
So very meta. I always love seeing all the founders that we work with because As you probably know, there have been over 4,000 companies.
And I've talked to all of them about this topic that we're going to talk about today.
Over the last 17 years and I've tried to make this talk better. And more useful over the last 17 years.
Got a lot of feedback on it over the years and tweaked it to adapt to market conditions and it's something that only tech stars companies hear.
I don't really share the same way of thinking about the world of fundraising with others that I do.
With you all. So.
They're recording.
Let's see, I got a mute one person there. Okay. If you're not on mute, please, please do stand mute with so many people on the call.
It's helpful. So I've been doing this this talk, in this workshop, which is interactive.
Everybody participates. For a long time and I have 2 very simple goals to try to accomplish with you all today.
One is I wanna teach you. A way of thinking about fundraising strategically that is maybe different.
Then what the conventional wisdom is or what you might hear from others. It's so that you can decide whether or not you want to use all of it pieces of it.
I wanna make sure you understand how I think about fundraising. Especially in the context of being a tech stars company, which is a unique, it's a different position.
You're in a network, you've got lots of resources. That can help. It's also challenged sometimes as you're finding out.
So I want to make sure you learned that strategy that's thing one and I wanna make sure thing 2 that I.
That I teach you a few communication skills that I think are super valuable in the context of fundraising.
Okay, so those are the 2 takeaways I want you to get. We can sit here and talk for an hour and a half about every question under the sun for fundraising and an open Q&A format.
We're not going to do that. We're going to accomplish those 2 goals. You have lots of mentors to help you with your specific questions.
And I'm also happy to help with that offline but that's the focus of today cool Good.
We're gonna do it through role play. Some people are gonna come up on stage with me and do some role play.
We're gonna do it through polls. We're gonna do it through the chat. Everybody's gonna participate.
People who have listened to this talk have raised 25 billion dollars.
Okay and venture capital so It's on average much more than a startup would raise if you multiply it by the people who've listened to this talk.
So I think there's some really useful stuff in here that can make you better fundraisers.
And I hope that. You can. Spend disbelief a little bit as you go through because some of what I'm going to say again is not conventional wisdom.
It's a little counterintuitive and it all kind of comes together when you really think about it.
So with that, let's get started. I like to talk about before we do the 1st role play.
I like to talk about the 2 big killers. In fundraising. These are the 2 things that I see kill more deals more fundraising efforts than anything else.
The number one mistake that I see. Most commonly the kills fundraising deals is the over ask.
Just ask for too much money. Expectations in exceeding them. Are really important in the context of fundraising.
So when you say, I'm raising 5 million dollars. You set an expectation. Up here. If you raise 4.5 million dollars, you're a failure.
That's what you're telling me. Okay? If you raise 4.7 million dollars, failed.
You didn't do what you said you were going to do. Cause you told me you're gonna raise 5 million.
I wanna work with people who do what they tell me they're what they're gonna do. And in fact, I like to work with people who do more than they tell me they're going to do.
That's human nature, right? So I've seen a lot of data points. I've seen 4,000 companies raise, I don't know, 20,000 rounds.
They were all just like you. They all started just like this. Right? So that's the data that's really relevant.
What do i see in that data It's very clear that when Companies make an ask up here and they only get commitments below that.
The most common outcome.
Is that they don't raise any money.
The most common outcome is not that they raise Less. It's that they don't raise.
Anything. And I want to let that sink in for a minute. Think about the people you know that have raised money.
Some of you ever use money think about the people you know that have raised money and for their startups Are they out telling everyone?
I had this awesome fundraising round. It was amazing. It was under-subscribed.
We were, we were awesome. No, they're out telling everyone. About their oversubscribe.
And they manage that because they're good fundraisers. They managed it by asking for less.
They managed it by getting oversubscribed. They managed it with intention. They let the market push them up.
They didn't set an expectation that they didn't meet. And then have to explain to everyone why they didn't meet it.
And if they did close any money when they were under subscribed. The terms were much worse than they were expecting.
Versus if they're oversubscribed, the terms probably better than they were expecting. So the overask is the biggest killer in fundraiser. How do you avoid it?
You ask for an amount of money you're confident you can raise.
Don't ask for an amount of money you're not confident you can raise. Be confident about the amount you asked for.
Let the market push you up. Get oversubscribed, then decide to raise more. Positive dynamic, good for everyone.
Good for you. Good for your price. Good for the investors who've already committed because it's a hot deal.
Good for everyone. So that's the big 1st killer in fundraising is the over ask.
I don't have a formula for you. But if you're not confident, it's too high.
Alright, second big killer in fundraising. We're all marketers, but we should not be liars and we should not be extreme exaggerators especially in a network like this, that type of news travels really quickly.
I'll skip the story, I usually tell, cause I want to get into the role play, but stick to the truth stay away from the bright red line of being a liar none of you are liars we screen for that y'all are honest people your well-intentioned people but we're all marketers I'm a marketer too.
Right. I mean, you're all sitting in tech stars. You probably saw a video of me somewhere or my brand somewhere, tech stars.
I'm 1 of the founders, right? Is the reality exactly like the advertisement? Probably not.
But in no time will we ever intentionally get anywhere near that bright line and you should not either because that news travels really quickly and no one wants to work with people who are unethical or Position extremely.
I am going to tell you one quick story. The extreme positioning story so companies stood up on stage in demo day.
They said, we got this great new hardware device. It was in the early days of Uber. And they said, we have a deal with Uber and, you know, it's gonna be in every Uber.
It's really cool. Well, the truth was it's gonna be in every Uber in Chicago.
Well, actually, it's only gonna be in 2 in Chicago, but they like to put it in every Uber and Chicago.
This was extreme overpositioning Travis Colonic jumped on check crunch write an article said not true that company never raised any money even though they had a really cool product They weren't clear about, yeah, we're just piloting it with Uber, right?
They were trying to make that the story and it backfired on them because news travels really quickly around the network like this.
So those are the 2 big killers. There are others, but those are the ones I've seen kill a lot of deals.
Too much marketing, too much extreme overpositioning and the over ask. Alright. I wanna see if Max is out there.
Max has volunteered to, hang out with me here on stage and in order to find you, I either need to raise your hand virtually or come off Mike and just say hello.
Hello. Yes, there we go.
Or both. There it is. Hey, how's it going? How are you?
Doing well, how are you?
I'm good. I'm showing you to everyone around the world. Is that okay with you?
Little intimidating, but yeah, it's fun.
Yeah, well don't worry, I'm gonna join you, on stage, so here's me as well.
So you and I are gonna do a little role play together. Where are you physically located today, Max?
Just outside of Portland, Oregon.
Nice. Alright. Cool spot. So, what we're gonna do is learn by doing and there is no right answer and no wrong answer.
I got your name from our ops team. We haven't talked one on one or prepared for this in any way just so people know and that's part of the beauty of it because we just kind of see where it goes.
Everyone is going to participate. So while Mi and Max are here on stage. What everyone else is gonna do.
Is use the chat and if you're in a room Maybe someone could use the chat in that room to sort of represent things that people in the room are saying.
But what I'm looking for is a stream of consciousness as you watch this role play. So I would love to see.
Comments like I love how Max did that, you know, or I love how Max tried to, you know, get David to pay attention when he was checking his email or whatever.
Positive. Negative, I think Max could do this better. David's being a jerk.
That's totally fine. You know, this is a role play, right? So what I love to have is a stream of confidence, a stream of consciousness about what you observe between the 2 of us as we're doing this role play.
Okay, can everybody help me with that? Great, and we'll come back and have talk about those things.
Okay.
Max, you're gonna ignore that completely. Do not look at the chat. It's going to be gone a million miles an hour.
Okay, so you want to ignore that. And you want to be right here with me, in Boulder, Colorado to Portland, Oregon.
Okay. I'm gonna be an investor. And you're going to be an entrepreneur.
You're gonna be an entrepreneur with a company called epicurate that i know really well okay so you can assume I'm very up to speed.
Because what we want to make this role play about is getting me to commit to invest. Not teaching me what the company is all about, right?
So assume I already know all that. And what we wanna do is we want to have a conversation where your goal of the having the conversation is to get me to commit to invest.
Okay, but again, I'm familiar with the company like we can just sort of jump into that like we've talked a lot right we have familiar with each other so we're having our in conversation not our 1st one.
And you don't, you know, it's not gonna be pitching me, it's just gonna be talking about, hey, you know.
Let's get this done, right? And I'm gonna use. One little constraint.
That will place on you. Just a little thing, which is that you have nobody committed yet.
Okay.
Okay, so why do I do that? It's not just to be annoying. It's, it's the thing I'm trying to teach.
And thank you, by the way, for jumping up because it's I know it's a little bit we're gonna have fun don't worry.
I promise we're gonna fun. I'm super helpful to sort of just be yourself and people will learn from the conversation in the context of what i wanna teach here So thank you, but you have nobody committed.
So anybody's raised money before knows that the 1st commitments are the hardest. And that once you're mostly committed or oversubscribed things get a lot easier, right?
So we're sort of purposely making it about getting your 1st commitment. Okay, makes sense.
Yes.
That's it. That's the role play. I'm an investor. You're an entrepreneur.
We know each other already. I'm pretty familiar with the company. You're interested in having me commit that's the goal of this conversation.
No questions.
Right.
But you have nobody committed yet. Okay, good to go. Great, let's jump in and at some point I'm gonna go like this and we're just gonna stop talking and we're gonna look at the comments.
Kind of talk about what's going on, but try to stay in character with me until I do this awkward and annoying and rude thing, okay?
Okay.
I'll start. Ready? Max, great to see you again. How's it going?
That's great. Great to see you as well. Going well.
Good, good. I've been reading the updates. I'm really psyched about, how it's gone. So, on all the progress.
I know it's early, but, feels like it's really interesting.
Thanks. Yeah, we're really excited as well.
Good. Well, how can I be helpful today?
Well, I wanted to know if you had any questions about, about the platform. You know, what, excited you about the pitch or sorry about the updates.
No, I mean, I've been playing around with the demo and watching the videos you've been sending and I feel pretty up to speed.
It's an exciting opportunity. I've loved working with you. It's been a lot of fun.
Awesome. We're making some really, exciting progress on, on the country. Front.
We've, really been, Seeing a lot of great feedback from guests as we're trying out that you know the ability to just talk to a concierge and book.
So that's been great. Our partners, you know, are, just kind of lined up.
We, you know, as we've been struggling with our. Constraint is onboarding new partners and onboarding vendors. I mean, the demand there.
Sure.
So, you know, we're just trying to figure out how to do that as, as efficiently as possible.
Makes sense? Makes sense? Anything I can do to help with any of that? Let me know.
Absolutely. Yeah.
I'm hopefully those introductions I made a few potential customers were useful. Good.
Great.
So.
You seem to be thinking about something, Max.
So yeah, I'm trying to think about, you know, what
What we need at this point is, really to, you know, to bring on the resources to capture this opportunity that we have and we've got all these all these travel partners.
Sure.
We've got all these chefs but we're just we're struggling with how to bring them on how to get them you know so that their clients can book through us you know so we're really working we've got an awesome team but it's just
Yeah, it's just a matter of bringing on those people to make sure that we, that we can really, you know, position ourselves as the best in market to.
Cool. Yeah, I actually know a few people that would actually maybe be interested in opportunity to join your team.
I'm happy to make a couple introductions there as well.
Awesome. Okay. What we really need is, you know, we're doing our 1 million dollar raise.
Okay, the 1 million. Got it.
Okay.
And so Yeah, we're trying to raise a million dollars. And the idea is that we have, we have 5 partnerships, that are all waiting to come on board and, you know, the partnership that we already have with once day we're doing, about $5,000 a month in revenue with them.
Just launched a couple of months ago and we think that each of these partners that are coming. Are waiting to get on board can do at least that.
So yeah, we're targeting that within, within 2 years we should be doing about a hundred $1,000 per partner.
In revenue. So, You know, we've got about 4 partners a year that we wanna bring on.
So in 2 years, there should be 8 partners. Clear in the 2 we already have would be 10 partners.
So, yeah, good. You know, nice opportunity for about a million dollars in a month in MRR.
That's exciting. It's exciting for sure.
And that's just for the private shop. We launch our, before we launch the concierge service.
So. Yeah.
Cool, let's stop and talk for a second outside the role play. The overriding, comment that I see in the chat is Ask him for money.
Okay.
Basically. And I agree strongly with that. And I also want to point out that this is a human endeavor and it's it's hard to do that.
You know, we haven't really spent a lot of time together. We in real life, but you know, in the role play we have.
And. You know, I'll just point out something. That I think a lot of people are basically saying in the chat is nobody's asked me to invest and so the strategy I want to teach you, while it feels obvious.
The 1st step in the strategy and, and the thing to write down if you're taking notes is is make an ask.
And do that sooner than you think. Other people were saying like there's buying signs from David like he's sort of saying yeah we're really excited about what you're doing and it's been great working with you and You know, yeah, it's a big opportunity.
They're hearing those things. And so there's sort of interest being expressed generally. But step one of the strategy is to make a clear and direct ask.
For a specific amount of money to be committed. Today. Now. And here.
Those are great words today. Now. And here. Because what ends up happening in these conversations is, you know, I'm very familiar with this is it's a little awkward, it's a little hard, it's a little, it creates anxiety to just walk in and say, hey, David, can I count on your commitment for a hundred $1,000 today?
Which is what needs to happen. That's that 1st step. How do you get to the $100,000?
You have a conversation, right? Or you do some research. You figure out how much does this investor typically invest.
If you're feeling a bit unsafe. You say things like. On a scale of one to 10, how excited are you about investing in my company?
David?
And David will say 6. Which you will then, because you're having this workshop, you will then add 2 to it.
And you'll hear, because everyone hedges right on the investor side they're not gonna share their excitement So you get a 6 or 7 there ready to invest.
They're pretty close to the finish line. You should be asking them because that's really an 8 or a 9 when you add 2.
So a great question to you is to make yourself feel a little safer. And be able to make this ask and use step one in the strategy, which is to make a clear and specific ask for a specific amount of money using words like here now and today.
Right. Hey David, on a scale of one to 10, how excited about investing in the company? If you get a 6, which is really an 8 or higher, you need to ask.
If you get a 5. You might wanna ask. That's really a 7, that's pretty good.
And the reason for asking is not because you're sure they're going to say yes. The reason for asking is to change the tenor of the conversation.
Because this conversation is about a hypothetical future.
You know what I saw someone say in the in the chat way back was you should say something like, you know, would you be what would you need to see to be able to invest?
Please don't do that. Instead use step one in the strategy. Sooner than you think, make a clear and specific ask.
A specific amount of money. Here, now and today to be committed. Why don't you say, well, what can I do to move the ball down the field or how can I get you more comfortable?
Cause I'm really, really good at giving you homework. That's why.
Anybody out there ever experienced that an investor giving you homework? Come back to me when you have a lead investor.
I'd like to see your roadmap. I gotta talk to my partners. Let's talk next week.
I mean. I got a million of them. They're all the old hits. Okay, so.
The 1st step in the strategy when you say, hey David, can I count on your commitment today for a hundred $1,000?
You change the tenor of the conversation. If you don't do that, you're talking about a hypothetical future and you allow me to stall.
You allow me to win. Why is it winning for me? I'm gonna tell you, Max, I'm gonna say thank you.
You too.
I got a bunch of people trying to volunteer. You did awesome. Thanks for coming up on stage and come back to the next person just a moment.
Appreciate it.
Max, you're great. Okay. Now, what's wrong with talking about hypothetical futures?
I don't know, let's, jump over to a dating analogy, shall we?
Dating is also awkward. It's awkward to ask somebody on a date.
Anyone here ever been on a date? 1, 2, couple of you. Okay. I would think it was more.
It's awkward. It's weird. It creates anxiety.
So we say things like, we should hang out again sometime. Any other person says, yes, sounds great.
But there's no date happening. Yeah, instead if the person says, will you go with me, on Tuesday night at 7 pm on a date to the olive garden.
Clear specific direct specific. It's about a thing. Not a hypothetical future where I can sort of take a free option and say, well, yeah, yeah, sounds great.
And then keep learning more about you. But I face changing. Reaction-inducing question.
You asked me another date. And now I have to answer the question.
Right? I mean, maybe the answer is. And Jack, you'll get this. Maybe the answer is I don't like the Olive Garden.
In which case you know you're talking to a lunatic. Or, maybe the answer is I'm busy Tuesday night.
We might figure out how to solve that problem. Or the answer might be no, I'm married and I don't go on dates with people, but thanks for asking.
Okay. I know what to do with that also. Right? And now is useful.
Okay, saves my time. Allows me to talk to other people and. I don't wanna take that analogy too far.
But it's, there's a lot of analogies, a lot of similarities there.
So step one, when you make that clear and specific ask, you will see their face change.
If you do it right, you'll literally see that. Okay, and they're thinking to themselves I've got to answer this question And more than likely their answer is going to be now.
And they're going to give you a reason. Why the answer is no. No, because. Now, what I like to point out about this Reaction-inducing question.
And asking it sooner than. You think you should. Is that? That's the 1st time the shit gets real.
Because when you're talking about hypothetical futures, we should hang out sometime. Yeah, that'd be great.
You know, you give me the ability as an investor to take a free option. How do I take a free option?
What is a free option and why do investors want it? Let's get into the mind of the investor.
Some of you said things like this as we were talking here. In the mind of the investor is I want a free option.
I want to pay 0. For the option to invest later.
Pretty good economic deal, right? For that investor. If you were an investor, and some of you are, You would have the same mindset not because you're a jerk not because you're evil but because it makes sense Okay, so understand where the investor is coming from.
Time.
Is knowledge. Time is power.
Right? I have more information? More knowledge. I feel safer tomorrow than I do today.
Why should I commit today when I can commit tomorrow? Why should I commit tomorrow when I can commit next week?
Why should I commit next week? When I can commit next month. Not evil, totally normal.
Someone asked you out on a date. Sure, sounds great. Let's talk more. Let me get to know you more.
Let's hang out here in this bar where I feel safe before we say yes to a date. Free option.
Totally normal, right? How do you break out of that? This is the stalling you feel from investors when you talk to them.
How do you break out of that? You use step one in the strategy and you make them answer the question, probably with the word no, followed by the actual reason why they're not ready to commit.
If you talk about hypothetical futures, how interested are you? Oh, I'm really interested. Free option.
Oh, I think this is super exciting, but please come back to me when you have a lead investor.
3 option. They went. But when you say, well you commit a quarter 1 million dollars today? David?
And you say today, now here. Their face changes and they say, I'm not ready to commit yet because I don't know what the terms are or because you know I I don't know who's gonna be on your board or because you know I'm worried you're not gonna raise the 1 million dollars that you're talking about.
It forces them to address the reason why they're not ready to commit. And to tell you, and that tends to be the real reason.
But when you're talking about hypothetical futures, They tend to just give you homework. Send me the roadmap.
I want to talk to fear your customers. We gotta have a partner meeting next month. Our investment committee doesn't meet for a while.
You've heard all these things before, if you've ever tried to raise money. Exactly right But not because they're evil people, because time is money.
Time is power, time is knowledge. Free option is what investors are trying to take this question. Break breaks you out of that pattern.
I'm going to bring up another volunteer. It's gonna be, let's see.
Gab or are you out there? In Boston, in Boston. Cool.
Hmm, yep, Boston.
Yeah, I just gotta find you. It takes me a second to find you. Keep keep your hand up or keep talking.
Are you in the room there?
Yeah, I'm the guy with the Red Sox.
I gotcha. You and me, how are you doing? Are you in Boston?
Good. Yeah, literally. Yep. Well, in my house.
Awesome. Cool. Cool. Did you watch the 1st role play?
Yeah, I got work fine, yeah.
Is it Gab or? Is that how I say this? Cool, awesome. Nice to meet you.
Sure.
So we're gonna do the same role play. But this time you know that it's important to use step one in the strategy.
You know that rather than having a hypothetical future conversation, we need to turn it into a now and hear conversation.
And you need to ask me to commit a specific. Of money today. And you know you want to do that sooner than you think.
Especially when an investor is showing buying signs and interest, right? And then we're gonna learn what happens from there like everybody watching is now going to see my face change when you do that because it just happens you don't even try to make it happen.
It's like oh crap I'm being asked to commit to something. You're gonna get my answer and we're gonna see what we do with it.
Got it.
Same situation, we know each other. I know your company really well. You have nobody committed.
Cool, let's jump in. Gabr, good to see you again. Spent a few minutes.
Nice to see you again Dave.
How can I, how can I be helpful today?
Well, you know, we're going through the tech stars program in Boston. We're about halfway through as you know.
Yeah. I've heard of it.
Cool.
Yeah, so, you know, we're getting ready for demo day. And we're starting to think about the resources that we need to actually execute on the list of 20 pilot sites that we have in the queue.
Right big opportunity
They are and so you know I just want to follow up with you and just check how How do you see the company at this point?
Super exciting. I think it's a huge opportunity. I talked to my partners about it on Monday.
We spent probably half an hour talking about it. I think it's really cool. Love working with you.
It's been really exciting.
A half an hour.
Yeah, I know it's forever in, in, you know, VC time, right? Like half an hour.
Well, if you had to score the opportunity, I know if you have a scoring system as part of your diligence team, but How would you rental?
I mean, it's obviously really risky at early stage, but I mean, as startups go, I'd say we're pretty excited, like maybe a 6 or 7.
Okay. Well, you know, that sounds pretty good to me. You know, like I said, you know, our number one milestone right now is to take those lists of 20 pilots.
Yeah.
And select 5 of them. And so, ify our product features. And hit certain financial milestones and so What we're thinking is, We need resources today.
Worse. Yeah.
And I'm looking for a hundred $1,000 commitment. From you today, Dave, to help us.
Grow these pilot sites. From Freemium, 6 day fragments to paid pilots. Between now and December.
Because we have another 15 opportunities to pull down in the pipeline, which we can't actually execute against because we don't have enough cash after like next stars.
Yeah, no, I like totally make sense that you would raise around
So can we count on you on a hundred $1,000? We're essentially thinking about doing a 250,000 safe right now.
Okay.
That's so we can show some traction from the 5 pilots because we're their revenue right now.
So we think we can deliver more value to the early investors on this safe. By bringing them early, showing tracks in for the next 6 months and then raising a larger seed round of a million in q 1 of next year.
Okay, quick time out. You're doing great. I wanna take quick time out and wanna make an observation.
Which is you've used the strategy that I gave you twice. You did a very good job of saying David can accounting a hundred $1,000 commitment today And then you talked a lot more.
Yeah.
And then you did it again and then you talked a lot more. I'll modify my step one.
You gotta make the ask and then stop.
Because what you're doing is you keep talking and I'm using that as a way to sort of just, you know.
So yeah, it makes sense you would raise money. Like I'm trying not to answer the question.
Yeah, I noticed.
But I need you, yeah, and I know you notice that, which is why I stopped it. So try it again, cause you did it really well twice, but put a period on it.
Or put a question mark on it. And make me answer. Right? Like that's the question you're posing to me.
Don't give me more ammo to sort of change the tone or the direction of the Conversation power the pause agree so let's jump back in one more time
So, so, so we're looking for, I'm looking for a commitment from you today.
For a hundred $1,000. So we can execute again, save. How do you feel about that making that commitment today?
Well, thanks for asking. 1st of all, it's flattering to be asked. I suppose I'm not.
In a position where I could make a commitment today, but I'm super interested. So, you know, What would help me, I guess, is understand more about the round.
How much money are you raising and on what terms?
Well, I mean, we're gonna use the standard. Can I use a term YC safe?
Sure, a part of it.
We're gonna use the standard, safe, to raise it. Probably, 3 million dollar cap.
And we're looking to raise 2 50. And we're looking to do that by the end of June.
Got it. Stop. Great, okay. You see how this conversation changed a lot?
From a hypothetical future to Oh, I asked David to commit. He said I can't commit because I don't understand the terms.
And you made a choice. Right. So I wanna talk about that choice.
There's a few comments here that like, you know, people are noticing the word probably.
It doesn't create confidence like it should be really clear. Yep, what you said is we're raising 2 50 K on a 3 million dollar safe note.
No, probably about it, right? Now, where are we in this strategy? One. You did a great job of making a clear ask for a specific amount of money and you used the word today.
You made it about now. My face changed. I said, not really ready to make a commitment today because Step 2 in the strategy.
I was gonna come back to that.
Yeah, step 2 in the strategy. I want to teach everybody right now. There's only 3 steps.
Step 2 in the strategy is.
Listen, not grey hair, listen. Not trying to show you the gray hair trying to say listen Pointing here, not here.
Okay. You gotta listen. Let it come out, right? Like that's that period, the pause, okay?
Ask the question, let it come out. I'm not quite ready to commit because if they don't answer the question, ask them again.
Yeah, I understand you're interested, but are you ready to commit the $100,000 here today, David?
Push on that step one until they give you an answer. You gotta listen for that answer. People forget to listen.
Right? And they just start problem solving because you and I were entrepreneurs. What we do, we solve problems, okay?
So you heard, I don't. Know what the terms are and you told me these are the terms.
Cool, you made a choice. Are you conscious of the choice you made?
Well, I knew there was 2 answers there the terms and why you actually hesitated.
What do you mean by that?
Yeah, I made a conscious choice to answer the specific question versus why you paused.
That's right. Yeah, you answered the question, you solved the problem. You said this is the answer to the question.
Everyone is ever been in negotiation camp or done a negotiation knows that, maybe you're starting a little high and if I were doing that I would start a little a little low.
That's just the roles we're in. That's all fine. But the choice you made.
And I'm gonna launch my 1st poll. Cause I want everybody to be involved in this. I don't have poll questions set up.
Okay. We'll do it without a poll. Sorry, I usually have this set up in advance.
The poll question I wanna, I wanna ask and I wanna just get a show of hands. And I get that there's people in room, but I'm gonna look.
How many people would make the same choice? In response to that question. Which is, well, I don't really know what the terms are.
Don't do virtual hand raised because that's just gonna confuse me just like physical hand raise if you don't mind.
How many people make the same choice and and essentially anchor like that? Hmm. A lot of people.
Okay. How many people would make a different choice and say something like, well, David, what do you think?
In other words, give away the anchor. You know, I'm open to any offer, you're a great investor, you know, I'd love to see what you think.
I see some hands going up there too. And Jennifer, if it's a virtual hand raise, I think you have a question.
So if you do have a question, keep your hand up. Otherwise, you can just put it down.
Those are the 2 choices most. People would make either anchor or give away the anchor.
Okay, so I'm going to solve the problem. I'm going to tell you what the price is or.
David, you tell me what the price is and I'll tell you if that works or not. And these are 2 forms of entering into a negotiation.
Okay.
Like no one's gonna say, okay, great, that price sounds right. Done. Although maybe they would at a 3 million dollar cap that was quite that was quite a low start.
You don't distinguish between a safe conversation. Versus a priced round conversation in in voice.
Not at this point I wouldn't. I'm trying to get a commitment. I don't really care if it's on a safe note or equity or what, right?
It's not really important to me. I want to get the money. Right? And so the 2 choices that people tend to make are those 2 choices.
And both of them lead to the same place. Both of them lead to a negotiation.
And they lead to a negotiation from the weakest possible position on your part.
Because you have nobody committed. And you really need me. And I have time. So I can wait.
So if we're going to negotiate. I'm gonna win. And you can always say no, but you're not winning either if you say no.
Right? And so I wanna present a different. Idea as part of my 3 step strategy.
Step one, make the ask for specific amount of money here. Now today, step 2, listen.
Extract the problem, right, that you're hearing. Step 3, and this is the really different approach.
Step 3, take away that problem.
Doesn't that sound simple? Just take away that problem. Take that problem and make it not a problem.
If you go for the median. Is solving the problem. And our instinct as entrepreneurs is to solve the problem.
That's what we do all day long. We solve problems. I want you to fight that instinct.
Don't solve the problem. Instead, make it not a problem. Different mental model. I'm gonna tell you what I mean by that So, Gibbor, I'm gonna say thanks for the help.
Appreciate you. You're awesome. Did a great job making that clear and specific ask.
When we hear that problem. And this is really the key piece of the strategy, cause then it's just a loop and you just repeat it forever until there aren't any more problems.
When we hear that problem, I don't know what the valuation is. Fight your instinct to solve that problem.
And instead take away the problem. How do you take away the problem? Well, in this case, you would say, David, I hear you.
It's hard for you to make a commitment without understanding the terms of the deal, but I'm pretty early.
I'm just getting started here. So what I'd like to do is take your commitment for the $100,000 today and we'll figure out price as we go.
And if we don't figure out a price that we can agree on prior to closing, I would of course never hold you to the commitment you make here today.
Will that work for you?
It takes away the problem. The problem is a fear. The problem is I'm afraid as an investor that I'm going to pay the wrong price.
So give me an out. Just simply say We'll figure that out in partnership as we go. We'll see how much demand there is.
Right? We'll see what other people come in and we'll figure out a price. And if you don't like that price, I would of course, Magic Words never hold you to the commitment you're making here today.
Would that work for you? You given out. And then you write it down. And you say.
Got it. David doesn't. Have, you know, I'm not committing to a price with him.
If he doesn't like the price before closing, he's out. I keep track of that.
And then I say something like, this is the loop. I say something like, great! So you'll make the $100,000 commitment here today.
If we don't figure out pricing this acceptable to you before we close, we would of course not hold you to the commitment you're making here today.
Are there any other conditions to the commitment of a hundred $1,000 that you're making here today? You start to use this language like a car salesman a little bit.
It's your car. It's not my car. You already bought it, right? And what you're saying is Are there any other things you're fearful of or worried about?
You're not saying it that way, but you're asking what are the other conditions to the commitment you're making here today?
And they might say something well, I'd be much more comfortable if you come back to me when you have a lead investor.
Well got it. I hear that. And it makes sense to me. Because I listened and then I used step 3 which is take away the problem.
How about this if we don't have a lead investor you love? Prior to closing, I would of course never hold you to the commitment you're making here today.
Would that work for you?
And they're gonna say, yeah.
Cause you're addressing their concern. Are there any other conditions? To the commitment you're making here, besides we agree on price and we have a lead investor that you like prior to closing, it's a loop.
Yeah, I'm actually really concerned about who's gonna be on your board.
Take away the problem. Got it. You're worried about who's gonna be on the board.
How about this? If we don't have a board that you love and sign off on prior to closing, I would of course never hold you to the commitment you're making here today.
And so on. I see some of you smiling. Pretty counterintuitive, but I'm gonna tie it all together for you and I'll get to the raised hands in just a minute.
This works on anything. I only invest in companies that are relocating here to my hometown of Boulder, Colorado.
You can fight him, you can have a negotiation about border, Colorado, or you can say got it.
If we don't move to Boulder, I would of course not hold you to the commitment you're making here today without work for you.
By the way, I can't commit to moving to Boulder, but if we don't, I understand you're not committed.
Does that solve your problems that work for you?
And so on and so on and so on.
So you take away the problem, you don't solve it, you give it out, not a problem.
Right? And what you're doing is you're building momentum. Now the people with their hands up, I'm gonna come to in just a second, but I'm gonna guess.
That some of you are gonna say, but that's not a real commitment.
If you have all these outs, how is that a commitment?
That's probably what's on a lot of your minds right now, but I'm gonna stop and take a question from Benson and see what Vincent has on his mind.
Hi.
Yeah, hi David. I'm so visiting, looking forward to, getting Olive Garden with you someday.
So we're working on an inclusive and explainable AI underwriting solution, which to banks in credit unions has a really long sales cycle.
Yep, last question. What's the question?
So we're pre revenue, right? Sorry. The question is, when your pre-revenue How do you properly value the company?
Because there is an argument to be made that any price is too much because you have 0 revenue. And a lot of the methodology that we've seen coming through tech stars is around pricing based on fundamentals.
In this environment how you would tell us to approach. Talking to investors.
Yeah. Okay, I'm gonna answer it quickly and we can come back to it at the end, but I wanna get through the strategy stuff.
Yeah.
I would say there is no science for valuing startups. It's market norms. Most startups are completely worthless when they're invested in.
Most startups don't have revenues when they're 1st invested in. If this group of people it's on this call thinks about it, we invested in you and most of you don't have much early revenue if any at all.
Or much early traction, right? Some do, others don't. It's not a science.
It's an art. So there are market norms, which we can talk about more at the end.
The investors investing in the upside, they want you to have upside, you know. Of course, it's even if it is worth 0 technically today by some, you know, financial analyst calculations, you've got to figure out a deal that makes sense for everybody.
So. I do want to try to stay on topic with kind of the strategy, but let's come back at the end if you still have that question and haven't answered it fully.
Jay. Hello.
Jailo, I got it now.
Hello. Yeah, Jennifer Lowe. Everyone calls me J. Lo.
Ceo at Travis. Okay, so I really love this strategy of taking away the problem.
Okay, so I really love this strategy of taking away the problem, but by making it not the problem.
But does this work for specific scenarios like for the 1st commitment or are there certain criteria where this does apply?
Because obviously you have you know, a scale of investors, some are smaller, angels, some are bigger and institutional.
Yep.
So just curious, what is the criteria for this type of condition.
I think if you get good at it, it works on anything and it works on anyone. People wanna feel safe.
Okay.
It's a fundamental human need. They're telling you why they don't feel safe and you're making them feel safe by giving them an out around that thing.
Okay, so by the way, this works in sales, it works in all kinds of contexts. Now, the question that should be on everybody's mind, and I'm pretty sure it is, is but is this a real commitment?
Like, So what? I got a hundred $1,000 commitment and I had to give outs around pricing, you know, where I'm gonna live my board of directors and my lead investor.
Is that a real commitment? Yes, it is. What is a commitment? What is a soft commitment?
The soft commitment. Is when the investor says yes to a specific amount of money. And there are conditions to that yes, which are mutually understood.
That is a soft commitment. And that's what I've just defined in this loop.
By the way, when you're engaged to be married, you're in a soft commitment.
You said yes to get married But there are some specific things that might happen that would cause you to back out and not actually get married.
So I like that comment from no it is a change in state of mind. I am committed. But if any of these things go wrong, I'm not going to do it.
If you cheat on me, I'm not gonna marry you. Okay, that's a soft commitment.
It's only a hard commitment. When you sign the contract. Right, or do your thing in a church or whatever.
It's only a hard commitment when you actually sign a contract and wire the money in the context of of an investment round.
Soft commitments are not contracted. They are not in paper. Just like an engagement is not contracted and not in paper.
But it's pretty dang real. Anybody who's been through it knows that soft commitments are pretty dang real.
Okay. So, deep breath.
Why is this important? Why do I want to take away the problem instead of argue? With my 1st investors.
Well, if I start arguing about valuation, inevitably they're going to say, well, just come back to me when you have a lead investor.
Just come back to me later. I am happy to wait. I get a free option. This is the mindset you're fighting.
You need to get them to the point where they feel safe and comfortable saying, yeah, I'm in, but if any of these things go wrong, I'm out.
And you understand that and they understand that.
Your job as a fundraiser is super simple. Hard, but super simple. Manufacture, momentum.
You do not manufacture momentum when you have arguments with your 1st committers. No, no, how about 6 million valuation? How about 4?
How about 5? How about 2? No, how about one? I'm going to lowball you.
I have the power, you know. Oh, come back to me later. I win. Come back to me later for an investor, big win.
A free option is where I express lots of interest, but I never commit. Anybody feel that before?
Yeah. If you've ever raised money, you felt that before.
How about when an investor flips the script and says we can pick the can we pick the commitment conversation back up when they're actual terms?
It's the same thing. I get it. I hear you're not ready to commit because you don't know what the terms are.
That makes sense to me. I don't know what they're going to be either. Depends how much money we end up raising.
And so much interest there is. Twins who the lead investor might be. How about this? Why don't you commit the 100,000?
And if you don't like the terms, if you don't approve of the terms before we close, I would of course never hold you to the commitment that you make here today.
Will that work for you? You see, I get a yes out of people that way. And I manufacture my momentum.
And then when I have the next conversation, I say I have a soft commitment for a hundred 1,000. I'm raising 2 50 and it just gets easier.
Because I have that soft commitment already That's soft commitment I have as pending terms. Okay, that's how you could say it.
We're gonna figure out terms That covers everything. But they're in for a hundred $1,000 pending those terms.
Now I'm talking to you with momentum. And now I'm gonna get another 100 and I'll do it one more time and I get another 100.
I'm gonna be at 300 now I'm oversubscribed. Anybody who has a baby?
Knows that sleep is a thing. But when they sleep a lot They sleep a lot more. Sleep begets sleep.
Over subscription, begets over subscription. When you start to become oversubscribed, you start to become really oversubscribed.
The market dynamic is really good. You exceeded your goal. You did more than you said you were going to do.
Everybody wants to be involved with you. You're a winner.
But you don't become a winner unless you get your 1st commitment. You don't get over subscribed unless you get your 1st commitment.
You don't get your second commitment unless you get your 1st commitment. I'm giving you as a tool to get commitments early.
And build on them. Okay. Manage these. Reasons why they have outs.
Keep track of them per investor.
Soft commitments are a good thing not a bad thing they always come before hard commitment somebody always says yes before they sign a document It's a normal part of a commitment process.
Right? So the momentum that you're manufacturing is really important. Now, I wanna do one more role play.
Actually, I would talk for a couple of minutes more then I'm gonna do one more role place.
I'm gonna put you on alert who am I gonna put on a work here? I'm gonna put Des be on alert.
Okay, you're up next, but not quite now, so. Just get ready, Desby.
And the thing I want to talk about. Is an extreme version. Of this objection scenario.
Extreme version. So let's say you say to an investor, will you commit a hundred $1,000 today?
You know what? Let's do this with Desby. I'd rather do it with a person.
It's way more fun. Desby, where are you?
There I know. Hello.
You raising, say hi to me. There you are. Where are you today?
I'm in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
Pulsa. Alright. I've been in that office. Good to see you.
Good to see you as well.
Let's do this. You've been following along here?
Most definitely.
Make the ask sooner than you think specific amount of money here now today Listen, take the problem away. I'm gonna give you a really hard problem.
Okay.
That you have to take away. I'm sorry, this artist one you picked the hard. I know I picked you, but you picked the hardest one.
But it's actually really easy because it's the same thing.
Take the problem away. I hear you. What's the problem? How do I take it away?
That's what you need to think about, okay? Let's do it real quick really quickly jump in and ask me to make a commitment for a specific amount of money today and let's go from there.
Des be great to see you again. How can I be helpful with this round you're raising?
Thank you.
Good to see you again David. The introductions that you made for customers were amazing. Actually it's going to take up our MRR by 25 to 30%.
In this next quarter. With that said, I think our partnership together can really strengthen the company even more.
And so I was wondering if you would like to invest a hundred 1,000 into our company today. I mean if that was a commitment that you thought that you can make.
Thank you for asking. I'm super psyched about what you're doing. It's been really fun to work with you.
I appreciate the ask. I, You know, I might be in a place where I could do that, but I guess my issue is I don't really understand the terms, the deal.
How much money are you raising?
A 1 million.
So we're raising a million dollars. And I understand that you, you know, might not understand the terms, but I think, you know, that, we can really look at the terms, and come to understand together what that might look like.
I think that from my perspective, I see strength in our relationship, regardless of the terms.
Yeah.
And you know, I think we would be, open to discussing what that might look like together.
What are your thoughts?
Cool. Yeah, me too. I feel like it's been a great collaborative, you know, and I'll just be straight with you.
Like I would love to to invest. You know, you're raising a million. I'd love to do a quarter 1 million of that.
Also, awesome.
But, valuation is important to me. So I just have to be direct on that. I would do it at a 2 million dollar post money valuation.
Okay, well, it wouldn't be okay with you if, we considered the quarter 1 million a soft commitment today and then we can look at the valuation and the terms maybe in about 30 to 45 days just to talk through what that might look like.
Is that a plan that might be okay with you?
So I'm happy to get together in 30 to 45 days and talk about it again, but what I'm saying is I can make a commitment today.
But only if we can agree on a 2 million dollars post money valuation cap.
Okay, so
I don't know that that might be something that we can agree to today. I think that's something I would have to have a further discussion with my co-founders and board and team about.
Okay. Yeah. Of course.
So I think that you know I would like to consider. Our relationship together that we do want to move forward and that we can have that as a pending conversation.
After I go to my board and team and make sure that's something that we might can align on, would that be okay with you?
Yeah, let's talk again in a few days. Stop. So, okay, great. Great.
Thank you.
Good learning here. By the way, you very good communicator did good job all around. Lots of people saying, but look, what's going on?
I'm creating a problem. What am I doing? I'm low balling you.
Yep. Yeah.
I'm asking the investors get half the company. You calculated at 12.5 in the chat. That's right for me, but the investors get half the company because there's 4 of us with that check size, right?
Pretty rude offer. But, hey, maybe you're on Shark Tank or something.
I don't know. I love Mark, I shouldn't say that. Listen, yeah, Shark Tank, exactly, Brandon.
I think what you did is fine, you but I went because I bought time.
Hmm.
And you didn't manufacture any momentum, right? Because there's no commitment here and anybody who thinks there was a commitment here has happy years.
Cause I was very clear and saying I can't make a commitment today unless we can agree on this price.
So there is no commitment here. There's interest. Free option taking by me. I just bought myself a week.
I'm fine with it. Now, good question from the iPhone of, Which is should you propose another valuation?
Sure. You can have an argument with me. But I wanna give you a really counter intuitive way to deal with this scenario.
This is gonna blow your mind use my strategy You heard me. I want half the company for a million bucks.
The investor group. You're uncomfortable. That's the problem. The problem is you're uncomfortable.
How you take that problem away?
You make yourself comfortable.
How do you make yourself comfortable? You say. Thank you.
David, thank you for the commitment of a quarter 1 million dollars that you're making today. I hear you when you say that the maximum price you'll pay is 2 million dollars post money.
Now I gotta make myself comfortable. I can't commit to that pricing today, David. It feels low to me.
But if pricing comes in that low. Sure. But if it comes in higher than that. If it comes in higher than that.
Of course, I won't hold you. David to the commitment you, David, are making here today.
I, the entrepreneur, make no commitment about accepting that price. If it comes in higher, I understand that you're not committed.
Thank you for the commitment of the low price. In other words. I make myself comfortable, which is the problem that I'm taking away, by being very clear that I cannot commit to that price.
But that I really appreciate the commitment that they made to me today.
Hmm.
It's the same strategy. Take the problem away. Okay, now I know what you're worried about.
They might hear that as You accepting that price. But that's not what you're doing. And because you're in this workshop, you know the 3 really important things to do when you get a commitment.
There's 3 of them. You don't know me up, but you're about to.
By the way, for those furiously taking notes, I have a cheat sheet with all these notes.
I'm gonna share it at the end of the call. But you're welcome to make notes.
3 things you do when you get a commitment. So you say David, thanks for the commitment.
You know, I can't commit to that price. I need to be clear about that.
But if it comes in higher, of course, will not hold you to the commitment you're making here today. Does that work for you?
Yeah, sounds great. I feel like I'm winning. Having out if the price is higher than 2 million in my mind I know I'm low balling you.
You know it and I know it. But you don't want to argue with me, you want to say thank you.
Thank you for the commitment that you made, David. I make no commitment.
You want to be clear about that? Okay, they're going to feel comfortable and safe. Which is your goal as a fundraiser to make them feel comfortable and safe.
You're gonna write down that you were very clear about it. You're gonna do these 3 things.
1st you're gonna finish my loop, right? You, you have to make sure you're done.
So you can say David, are there any of the conditions to the commitment you're making here today?
Well, I'm really worried about lead investor and you can take that one away. Well, I'm really worried about, you know, I only like people who wear red shirts.
I don't invest in people who are green shirts, right? Okay. I'll change my shirt before we close.
Like you're keeping track of all this stuff. If I don't change my shirt to a red shirt, I would of course never hold you to the you made here today.
It's just the same thing over and over again, no matter how ridiculous the objection. Okay, you're keeping track of them.
There are no other conditions to the commitment being made here today. You then recap using a communication skill called reflective listening.
I wanna teach you this communication skill.
Reflective listening as you play it back and you ask you to get it right. It's not a weapon, it's the truth.
So you would say. David, I think what you're saying here is you're committing a quarter 1 million dollars to my round.
With the condition that pricing be no higher than 2 million dollars post money. That we have a lead investor that you like.
And that the Board of Directors is acceptable to you. Do I have that right? They're gonna say yes.
And you're gonna say, and there are no other conditions to the commitment you're making here today, right?
It's just those 3.
And they're gonna say, yeah, that's right. And then you're gonna say, I need to be clear with you.
That I can't commit to that pricing as we discussed. If it comes in higher, of course, won't hold you to the commitment you made.
Are we on the same page? You're using reflective listening to check it. The 1st thing you do after the meeting.
Okay.
I just send that in an email. You send an email. You say, David, thanks for the meeting.
Really appreciate the quarter 1 million dollar commitment. You made today. Thank you. It's super helpful.
That commitment you made today have 3 conditions. One that pricing is no higher than 2 million dollars post-money valuation.
As discussed I can't commit to this price. But if it comes in higher than that, I won't hold you to your commitment either.
Thing 2, we have a board of directors that you accept. Think 3 that you have a lead investor that you accept.
Those were the only 3 conditions that we talked about. Please let me know if I got any this wrong.
Thanks so much. Really excited to work with you. An email critically, critically important email. It doesn't matter if they answer or not.
For those of you that are like me with email, you're gonna set up your reminder and superhuman and you're gonna make sure you got a response.
And if you didn't, you're gonna follow up a week later. Okay, cool. Do all that.
But sending the email and having that email represent the conversation you just had is really important. You cannot use it as a weapon.
You can't say something that didn't happen. It's a confirmation of what just happened.
Reflective listening verbally and an email. Thing one, really important.
Thing too, now that they're a committed investor, soft committed. You're gonna ask them, are there any introductions you can make for me to other investors that like to co-invest with you?
Who are the most likely other people that are gonna best people to know this person?
Thing 3, may I use your name? May I tell people you're committed pending terms?
Social proof. Those are the 3 things you're going to do every time you get a commitment.
I've been making people stare at both of us for a while. Does this make sense to you, Desi?
Yeah, it is. I feel like, ultimately how I hear this is you're trying to get a soft commitment and take that as a leverage in your next conversation to keep.
Keep the ball rolling and keep the leverage on your side and negotiating power on your side. That's how I'm a type of in everything right now.
Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yep, and the ask all this conversations in person or on the phone or on a zoom, but the email comes afterwards to confirm the commitment.
Manufacturing momentum that is your job now you have a quarter 1 million dollar commitment and I know what you're worried about Desi, I'm gonna say thanks.
Thank you.
You were awesome. Thank you so much. Now you have a quarter 1 million dollar investment. I know what you're worried about.
That investor is going to go to a bar. I'm gonna sit down in a bar. With other investors.
And they're gonna say, oh my god. I just low ball the crap out of Doesby.
He has an amazing company. But I just offer him get this a million bucks. On 2 million post money, so a million dollar pre money evaluation.
Half the company for a million bucks. You're worried about that. Collusion. In the bar.
That's what I'm doing here. I'm an actor. You get it? Colluding in the bar.
The other investor who looks just like the 1st one is gonna say You know what I think I'm gonna call Desi.
What a great deal you negotiated. You're super smart, David. I'm gonna call it Desi and I'm gonna say Hey Desby, love what you're doing.
I'd also like to invest a quarter 1 million. Now you have people coming to you. Let him collude.
It's all good.
I understand that you're doing a deal with David where I get, you know, I want the same deal.
I can invest a quarter 1 million on 2 million post money. And you just have the same conversation. Now you're 500.
Collusion is good for you. Not bad for you. You have not committed to this 2 million dollars price.
This is the thing you got to understand. You've been very clear about that in email and verbally.
If the price comes in higher, those people are not committed. Now, let me tie it all together for you.
And have you watch the magic. The Magic Moment. One last role play.
Let's see. Gosh, the volunteers list. It's shrinking. But it still has people on it.
Is, size 3, is that? Are you out there? Say if I'm saying it anywhere near correctly.
Did you come off mute and say hello?
From D. Where are you?
Feel like maybe they're in the Boston, LAI think it's LA.
You're not out there. Can't hear you.
Okay, sorry. I tried. How about Gleb? Love, are you out there?
Yeah, I can.
Hey, what's going on?
Well, thank you.
Glad you have a friend, who's your friend?
It's my Bye.
Okay, okay, only one volunteer though. That's how this works. One at a time.
Yeah.
So thanks for staying off camera. Appreciate it. So we're gonna do one last role play.
You've been following along all this? Yours is the easiest one.
Yes. Nice.
I was your 1st committer. I'm sorry if you hear a noise. I was your 1st committer.
You used my 1st commitment you didn't argue with me you thanked me but I low balled you just like you just saw I gave you some really low ball price.
And I have an out, right, around that because if you don't, you know, if the price comes in higher, I don't, I don't wanna pay higher.
And you had told me, no, you can't commit to that price. You had sent me that email and all that stuff.
But you leverage the fact that you're generating momentum to get over subscribed. And now you're oversubscribed.
Okay, now you have a successful round. You wanna try to close it. The reason you're talking to me is to keep me in.
Even though the price is reasonable and not this low ball price that I talked to you about does this make sense?
But they price and negotiated with others. Is higher.
Right. It's it's market. It's higher. It's just not some crazy low price you can make up whatever details you want.
But the point is you're trying to keep me investing as opposed to walking away now that you're oversubscribed Let's see how you do that.
Are you gonna come back and say, Dave, you were you were a jerk, you lowballed me, but I'm gonna let you in anyway.
Are you gonna say? Actually, you were super helpful and I know we talked about a limit on price.
It's gonna come in a bit higher. I'd still love to have you. Let's see how you play it.
Okay, let's see.
But the point is you're now over subscribed and you're trying to keep me in as your 1st committer.
Even though I gave you a low ball price, let's just see how it goes.
Yes.
Glob great to see you again. What's the latest with the round that we talked about a month ago?
Hey, nice to see you as well. Well, actually great news. We've been oversubscribed.
Awesome.
We initially, we initially intended to raise a million and now and a half. Yeah, just a month, right?
Right, I remember. Yeah. A 1 million and a half. This one.
Wow.
Thank you. And, I wanna just say huge thank you to you to be honest because you was the 1st person who believe in us.
Hmm.
And, I gotta have the world rolling. I'm really appreciate that. And all this deal that you provided me with, I think that was helped me to close and around even go to subscribed.
But then we also add one more detail just to recap the conversation that we had, right?
You said that you're a meeting, 4 million dollars, with their condition that you can invest only the valuation is 2 million dollars.
Right, yeah.
So I made a clear note and I appreciate you telling me that time, but we've been following with the, with other investors and, they, proposed higher relations just because they decided that it is more fair from the
Sure, yeah. What valuation did they agree to?
The, the, of 10 million. Not to, get founders already loaded. And, And they also suggest a lot of ways how we can use additional capital.
To grow even faster. So we really wanna, have more money in this round and we want to keep you as part of this round just because you know this moment where you when you was the 1st person who believed in us.
Yeah.
That tells us a lot and I see this partnership moving forward. How can I, for you, comfortable to get money, will be higher press.
Well, I mean, 1st of all, congratulations super exciting. I'm a little bit confused though because what I'm remembering is we had a conversation where we kind of agreed to the 2 million dollars pricing and so I've been expecting that paperwork.
And now that the pricing is higher, it doesn't feel great that the price is changing like that.
Oh wow, sorry, sorry if I'm using the studio in any ways. Maybe that's because of my English as you as you can see.
I'm an immigrant. I'm trying to do my best to express myself clearly. But, I remember that I sent you this email.
I'm just going to put it up and recap. I think that's on my side, it says that, you made a commitment.
Yeah.
I see. Oh yeah, I see the email. Yeah, now I remember. Yeah, you had pretty clearly said that you can't commit to that price, but that you wouldn't hold me to the commitment I was making if it came.
So it's coming in higher, quite a bit higher, but you're raising a lot more money, which is pretty exciting.
Just nice momentum.
Yeah, well thanks for coming back to me on it and Thanks for reminding me of what we talked about.
I was a little angry for a second there, but now I remember that we talked about it that way.
There's an
I would still like to be in, look, I think that's a reasonable price for as much money as you're raising and You know, I wanna be able to tell my grandkids that I was the 1st one that said yes, right?
I mean, that's pretty cool. Yeah. But. But.
Awesome there. That says we're gonna include Intel, that much article. Okay.
Right.
I was the 1st committer, right? I was really helpful. And, I think I introduced you to a couple of other people that ended up investing.
So I hope you could see your way clear to. Giving me 500,000 instead of 250.
Hmm, I think that's a very fair position there.
Good tough market and extra runway would be really good for you, I think.
I think you might be right about that. but, let me, let me make an account you on, quarter 1 million dollars on a, of 10 million today.
Yeah.
And then as with the addition of 250, let me just try to do my best to talk to my co-founders and just to see if we if we see a way to use this initial money to help us to grow even faster.
And then it would just come back.
Okay, okay, that would be great. And okay, so just to be clear, I can keep my quarter 1 million dollar allocation.
Awesome.
I'm in for that. Please do send me the paperwork and if you can get me another 2 50 or even another 100 I would really appreciate it because it would give me more ownership with the price being a little bit higher.
Sure, then I can come to you today for a million dollars on a village of 10 million.
And I'm going to discuss with my partners, about a hundred K and. And I'm going to just get back to you within a day or 2.
Okay.
Go off clap, right? I mean. Nailed it. I told you it was the easiest one, but you still did really really well Now what's the difference here?
The difference here is you have all the power. You have the thing I want. When you 1st talk to me, I had all the power and I used it to lowball you, but you handled it by making me feel safe and not caving to it.
But giving me an out around it, realizing that when you're oversubscribed No one's going to drop out for any reason.
They're gonna actually get you more oversubscribed and ask for more because the price that you ended up with is reasonable.
I knew I was low balling you. It's now a hot deal. I want to be able to tell my grandkids about it and all my friends.
I don't want to miss out on this and really I'd like to get more because I like to own more, which is why I lowered you in the 1st place and I'm running a hundred 50 million dollar fund and it's only 500 K.
Not a big deal. 250 K, 500 K same number. Whatever you see It's a dynamic of power.
And you win when you manufacture momentum and you get oversubscribed and you never get there if you argue with your 1st committers.
Instead you take their problems away, you make them feel safe.
Okay, so this is the strategy and I wanna I wanna say thank you. You did awesome. You understood that you should treat me really nicely, not be mean.
Keep me in. All these conditions that people have that you've been writing down about whether or not you're gonna live in Boulder.
About whether or not your board of directors is great about exactly who the lead investor is. Nobody cares when you're ever subscribed.
Awesome.
Nobody cares. They follow A. But if you're not oversubscribed, they care a lot.
Make sense. I'm a, you can make just my, just one question quick.
Right. Yeah.
What to do with these investors who kind of Do I engage into this game with you? They just tell you, you know, we just need more time.
Like, you know, nothing really calls me like nothing specific. In my mind now, I just need more time.
So we just
Yeah, they are taking a free option. Okay, they're taking a free option. You've got to get them excited.
About what you're doing. Right? One way to do that is to start to manufacture momentum. Okay, so if they're not moving, they're going to be people who are terminal babies.
It's gonna happen. Some people are just expert at it and they're never gonna say yes until 90% of the round is done.
Okay, there are other people, and in my experience, it's 90% of people who this will work on.
So you just treat it as a free option. It's it's fine. You say you try to say things like how about accounting your commitment today and if in a week or 2 you don't feel good about it?
I don't think we'll be done by then you can always call me and tell me now.
Hey, give him an out, right? But you started trying to get them in an emotional state where they're committed.
They may say, no, I really need X. The trick is to ask the question, will you commit?
If you ask about a hypothetical future, are you interested? What can I do? How can we move the needle?
They give you the stall. If you ask them to commit, you get to the real thing. So my guess is there's a real reason.
It's not just we need more time. It's, we don't feel comfortable with the market size.
Or whatever so great how about this You make a commitment today. Of a hundred $1,000. I'll get you market data if that doesn't look good to you, of course you can drop your commitment.
I won't hold you to it. It's part of their due diligence process to check the market size.
You're trying to shift. This interminable list of reasons why someone stalls you down to just one or 2 things that they're really afraid of.
That's what the strategy lets you do.
And what's the awesome message they say if if those were soft commitments or hard commitments, you can say soft because people abuse these these days.
Yeah, soft commitments, they're they're intending to invest. We just have to you know nail down all the terms and finish raising the money.
Thank you.
That's Easy to answer. Thanks for your time. I see Nelson's hand up before I go to you, Nelson.
I'm coming in just a second. I wanna just kind of recap where we are.
And I have one more rant I have to do. Just one more rant I have to do, but I've decided I'm gonna hang out for an extra 2030min.
I know some of you won't be able to after our time, but we're recording this.
So if you want to hang out, I'm gonna take lots of questions in a few minutes. For about the next half hour.
And if you have to go, that's okay, it's recorded. But I want to recap the strategy.
Ask for a commitment for a specific amount of money here now and today. Listen, take away the problem.
Don't solve the problem. Take away the problem. Repeat until there are no more problems.
Okay.
Use reflective listening that communication scale I told you I want to teach you use it both verbally Do I have this right?
And an email to document both their commitments and yours. Or the lack of yours. Like I can't commit to that price.
You make them feel safe, you build momentum. The next conversation gets easier and you get eventually to subscription and over subscription it just gets easier and easier.
Elite investor will emerge. That's my last rant. It's called the lead investor.
And then I'm gonna come to the questions. The lead investor will emerge. I wrote a blog post many years ago.
Called Never Ask Anybody to be your lead investor. And I'll say it until I die.
I'll say it until I'm not here. Never ask anybody to be your lead investor.
I get it. A lot of you have already made this mistake. But never do it. Lead investor.
Comes from the set of committed investors.
Ask investors to commit first.st
When you say to an angel or a seed fund, will you be my lead investor? Keep hearing a little noise so if you're not muted please mute when you say to of seed fund or an angel will you be my lead investor?
What they hear is will you commit and Put your r on the line. And be in charge of the due diligence and take responsibility for introducing me to people.
Being the lead investor is harder.
Then being a committed investor. Why would you make that? The issue. Ask the investor to commit.
Build momentum with commitments and watch how lead investors come out of the woodwork Leave investors get nervous that they're not going to get their allocation.
Lead investors get nervous that the terms are going to get away from them. Lean investors come from the set of added investors.
If you're talking to a seed or angel, angel fund or sorry, an angel or seed fund.
Ask them to commit asking them to be the lead is just more work to them It's sucks.
If they want to be the lead, they'll tell you. That's not what you need.
You need a commitment. If you're talking to a VC who writes 5 million dollar checks. And they commit, they are your lead investor.
That's what they do. You never have to ask them that. A VC who says yes is your lead investor.
They're going to give you a term sheet and they're going to drive the deal after they commit.
Always ask for commitments, never ask for lead investments. Why? Let me tie it all together for you.
Why do we all go around asking everyone, will you please be my lead investor? Why? Because we have so many conversations where the other person has said come back to me when you have a lead investor.
Come back to me when you have a lead investor. Classic free option taking classic stall tactic.
You now know how to handle that.
How about you commit the $100,000 today and if we don't have a lead investor you love prior to closing I would of course never hold you to the commitment you're making here today.
Don't let that free option taking ploy cause you to go make it harder for everybody else to commit by asking them to be your lead investor.
Which is harder than asking them to commit. Don't fall for that trap. Deal with the problem up front, which is they want to see a lead industrial and they're not comfortable.
They're not safe Take that problem away. You never have to ask anyone to be a lead investor.
Okay, I promise Nelson I would come to you like 5min ago. Nelson, you're on.
And here we're going to just go to questions.
Yeah, hey, no worries. Thanks, Dave, for the talk. I'm curious about, conditions, right?
So when you talk to these investors and they're like, conditions, right? So when you talk to these investors and they're like, I'll put in 200 K if you change Right.
Yeah.
And then you get an oversubscribed round. You get to that sort of milestone and you're going back and you're locking people down.
Is that the appropriate time and what's the right way to handle it when you're like, you know, really appreciate your commitment?
Hmm.
You know, you said you commit 2 hundredk if I put on a blue shirt. I'm afraid that's not really gonna work for us.
Yeah.
At this point, like all my investors are cool with red. So, you know, does that mean one out?
Like, how do you?
Yeah, your analogy is exactly the same as the price is higher analogy. That we went through in the role play.
So whatever the thing that changed is it didn't really change. It just became clear, right? Like you made a decision.
The blue shirt analogy is a bit much, but you made a decision the price is going to be higher.
You made a decision you're not going to be based in Colorado or whatever. Right? And you're of course, you know, they're not committed because they were clear about that.
You can either tell them you don't want them in the round anymore unless you've made a commitment they're in.
Or you can say, look, that's a condition of you being in. We're going to have this color shirt on, or we're going to have this high price.
That was the last role play we did. I'd really like to keep you in and what I find my data is at least 90% of people will stay in.
Cause they knew the thing they were asking for was unreasonable. Sorry, they knew the thing they were asking for was sort of a low ball or sort of, you know, not really that important.
It's especially not important when you're oversubscribed. If you're really oversubscribed.
And you don't want to take all this money, then yeah, you can pick from your set of oversubscribed investors.
Be careful. Cause you don't want the whole thing to fall apart. What more than likely happens when you're oversubscribed as a lead investor has come out and said I want to set the terms I want to guarantee my allocation and you've negotiated with them, it's probably one of the bigger checks.
It's probably going to be very influential to the others. But there are times when there is no lead investor.
Like a good number of rounds of tech stars companies coming out of the accelerator have no lead investor.
Right? Nobody emerges. It's just everybody wants to do the deal. And in that scenario, you use the order of influence.
You go to the most influential, biggest check most well known person and you have a negotiation one on one.
And you use their influence with everyone else. To say this is what we're gonna do. Right?
Mark Cuban and I agreed to a 4 million dollar price that work for you. Of course it does. Right?
So influence really matters when you don't have a lead investor and being reasonable really matters when you don't have a lead investor.
That's the rest of my lead investor rant, but your example is exactly the same as, as price is higher, right? You try to keep them in or you decide you want them out.
It's your you have the power when you have but you never get there if you argue with your early committers.
Elena.
David, thank you so much for all the awesome tips. My question is, it's clear what we're getting from investors commitments.
What is the investor getting out of it? So like why would they even Why would they want to do it?
Ever not just like
Well, because they want to buy a share in your company for a dollar and have a be worth a hundred dollars later.
It's great. And the whole point is they think you're on to something. This doesn't work for investors who don't care about what you're doing.
Okay.
Yeah, what you're gonna find though is there are investors who care about what you're doing because you're doing something interesting, but they're afraid to commit.
This is the problem that we're dealing with. You still have to have a pitch. You still have to have a business.
Okay.
It's not. You know, Jedi Madness stuff, right? That's not Yoda.
So they would they would commit out of like fear of missing out. That's like okay
Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, but they have a fear they have a fear of missing out, but the stronger fear is that you know, that's something I don't know yet.
Or they're gonna pay too higher price. Those are the fears you're taking away so that that greed one comes to the front like oh I've got an out on price I've gotten out on where you live I've got now all these things I'm worried about but I you know Now my greed takes over and because I have all those outs I feel safe.
To let my greed take over. That's exactly what's happening here.
Okay, thank you.
Alan, I'm gonna go to you in just a second, but I wanna say we're at our defined time within 2min of it.
I'm gonna stay for another 20min and take questions. Recorded if you have to go. I totally understand. You have other things.
Thank you for your time, but I'm gonna stay and keep taking questions. If you're leaving, you can watch the recording later.
Allen.
I can't.
Hello, can you hear me? All right, good. Thinking about step one. Would you ever execute that in the very 1st meeting?
Yes.
Okay, thank you.
One things I love about startups. There's no rules. It's unlikely, but yes, would I ever do it possibly if I'm getting this massive, oh my god, this is the coolest thing I've ever seen. I love what you're doing.
I'm so excited. Yeah, they're investors. Ask them. They like.
What what's the more typical case would you have a 1st meeting?
Yeah, the more typical cases you have 2 or 3 meetings at least. And you know, people wait too long.
This is why I love the one to 10 question. On a scale of one to 10 how excited are you about potentially investing in my company?
6, I hear 8. Time to ask. Most people wait way too long. This is a professional investor or stated angel investor.
They're not going to invest unless you ask them to. Right? And they're probably waiting for you to ask in some cases.
And I really want to point out the reason to use this strategy the reason to use step one is not because you think they're going to say yes.
It's because you want to know what the real reason is they're not ready to commit.
And you want to take it away. Like it's an offensive strategy. And you want to use it sooner, not later.
Mac.
Right, thanks.
Hey.
Hey, Dave. On the note of the specific ask, you know, I'm thinking about like obviously the round size we have a really good idea but can you talk more about like making sure the number I give to them.
As a specific as number is right so I'm not creating more things to negotiate like Maybe, maybe if I'm doing a 1.5 million dollar round, I really want them to ask, you know, do like a million, but maybe they can only do 500.
Am I creating too much? Tension by asking them for a specific amount.
No, I don't think so because I 1st of all, I want you do your research So research comes by looking at our tools and systems and seeing who else have they invested in and how much did they invest.
Research also comes from saying things like, hey, which typical check size? And they're gonna say well anywhere from 100 to 500 K and you're gonna ask for 500 K because that's who you are.
Right. High end of the range and If you feel like that's too much, okay, that's for them to say.
So their 1st objection be, well, I'm not really in a place where I'm interested in investing 500 K, but I'd consider a quarter 1 million.
That's not a commitment, but that that gives you a sense. So great. Could you commit the quarter 1 million today?
Start the strategy right so I think you do your research, you ask some questions and you go high on the range and you see what they say and often they'll they'll right size the amount you're talking about.
Especially if they're really interested because they've already thought about it and then you get into the strategy with that ask.
There's a question I'm going to answer live in the Q&A. It's very related.
There's a soft commitment apply if a range is given. Like a hundred to you know I'm in for 100 200 K no That is not a soft commitment.
A soft commitment and I'm going to share the document before everybody drops off here. My notes that I promised it's a commitment to invest a specific amount of money.
That's made today here and now. With mutually understood conditions. So I'm going to share my cheat sheet.
In just a moment and While I'm doing that, I'm gonna ask.
J-Lo to come back on and ask the question.
Okay, this is for the women in the, in the founder startup cohort.
Thank you.
So obviously last year there was less than 2% of BC backed companies that were female founded startups.
I'm just curious if you have any advice for women that are raising to help make that number bigger.
Obviously, like a lot of people will say like, oh, we'll just do your best or don't do anything differently.
Do what everyone else does, but obviously that's not working. So like What kind of advice do you have for us to?
Yeah, to just be more effective fundraisers.
Yep. 2% number is right and it's not new. It's been in that zone for a while. And there's a lot of people actively working on it, which is good.
So 1st thing I would say is make sure in addition to targeting. The market the way you should that you also target those funds which are specifically trying to address this issue.
There are funds that are targeting looking for you. And I certainly think that you wanna make sure you have a good list of those and target those, not exclusively, but also.
2 is, there's pretty good research. I think Susan Cohen, somebody Cohen, last name Cohen.
I don't know, a bunch of Cohen's in the world. They were unrelated to me wrote a really good article about how women are asked questions by investors and studied the language of investors when they were speaking to women.
And and it's a really good article that I wish I had a link for. I'll put it in my cheat sheet in the future because I think get this question once in a while.
That talks about how to deal with the nature of questions you tend to get as a woman because as there's a bias amongst the investors who tend to ask questions about the downside.
Of what you're doing, the risk of what you're doing, where when speaking to men those same investors have a bias towards asking questions about the upside.
How big could this be? You know, what if it went right? What if we got this? You know, lucky break.
And
We learned that in our you venture finance class. It's I find the article too.
Okay. Yeah, thanks. If, if someone has the article, please share it in the chat. A great article.
And, and so I've seen that work. And I've become conscious of that in my own language as I talk to people.
What the advice is to turn the question. Thanks for sharing that. Turn the question. From, you know, the downside risk, you know, while answering it to the upside possibility.
Right and get them thinking about that again and that tends to help those conversations but it is a it is a reality it is a bias it does exist in the market a lot of people are well-intentioned and working on it those are the only quick thoughts that I have on it today.
Cool, thank you.
Here, got it. Yeah, for sure. Gleb.
I'm good question. Oftentimes I noticed that during the 1st meeting with investor you can share a lot about your startup and then they tell us something like we're gonna come back in a week or 2 and then you keep pinning them and providing some updates.
They are they ignoring you or they answering you something like, you know, we, still need my time, how to get them on the second call when you actually can use the strategy just proposed.
Right. So they just aren't willing to get on a call with you. So they're not interested enough.
Right, because if they if you really were in their pipeline and they really were excited about you. They're not gonna ignore you.
They might ignore you for a week, but they're not gonna ignore you for 2 or 3 weeks.
So you need to do things that get them more excited. You need to do things that you know, and obviously it'd be good to get on the phone with them to do that.
But you might send them an update about something great going on. You might let them know the round is progressing.
What you're trying to do is get them more excited and that that that's a different talk, right?
That's how to pitch and we're helping you a lot with that in other ways. That's demo day that's creating forcing functions of getting lots of investors to look all at once.
But it's essentially just getting them more excited, right? Through updates, through communication. And and and asking for a call and if someone is just saying no no no to that for months they're just not interested enough.
I'm thinking.
Sometimes it's an associate, by the way. I'll give you my associate ramp.
You can actually use a form of this same strategy with a associates. And I, when I say associate, I mean people who can't make an investment decision.
And you can ask that question. Are you able to make an investment decision? Usually if it's an associate, the answer is no.
Sometimes they can't. Principal, sometimes they can. So you can use the same strategy with the goal state being get a meeting with the partner.
Can you commit to get me a meeting with a partner? I'm not ready to do that. Okay.
Well, what's the problem? How can I take that problem away, right? Like you can you can adjust this strategy for any kind of sales process, by the way.
It's just really helping you understand that investing is just a sales process that's a little more complicated because you have multiple parties usually.
And it's about humans feeling safe. And feeling like, you know, afraid and how to deal with that.
So associates you wanna get through to a partner generally speak.
Thank you.
Alright, I don't see any other hands up. Which means we might be done here. But if you do have a question, I have a few more minutes.
Daniel, I'll take your question and we'll see if anyone else does.
And
Yeah, hey David, thank you for, thank you for this. It was like, That's great.
I'm curious if any of this works with Sales leads, like how much of it is transferable.
Versus how much is exclusive to investors.
Well, you know, a lot of this talk came from me in the early days going through sales trainings.
And then trying to adapt it to the Thousands of rounds I was seeing. Actually a lot of ways think it is very applicable.
It's not as much. Herding of cats typically. It's, it's, people always ask me like, does this work with a single VC check?
And the answer is yes. Right? And so it does work with a single party sales transaction. It's just removing those fears, right?
And the problem is, is that when, when someone's buying software, say, and it's a software sale, okay, there's no real momentum to manufacture because they're a single buy right so momentum is is sort of less a part of the dynamic So I think there's a lot of communication skills here that work in sales.
And a lot of understanding, you know, people's internal fears and mindsets, but there's less of the kind of free option taking dynamic and a typical sales process.
Yeah, makes sense. Thank you.
He reads his iPhone.
Yes, hi.
Can you hear me, David? Hi, thank you so much for your call. And So my question for all the presentations and my question is regarding in Kind of like the how can we jump from talking to an associate to talking to a partner?
And you mentioned something about this, but for example, normally when you had a conversation into an associate.
And you asked to talk to a partner, they tell you I have a process and this is a process and you never get to the partner.
So. That's my question. Thank you.
That's right. It's yeah, I think you when they have a process you should be grateful because at least you understand it and there are a lot of associates who won't even tell you what their process is.
And a lot of them never have done a deal in their life. So I don't mean to be down on associates, but it's a problem, right?
For a lot of people when they're trying to raise money. If you just make the ask, that's the goal state, right?
You know, Joe, it's been fine. I'd really like to speak to Mary who's a partner.
Could you get me that meeting? Could we do that together? I'm not ready to do that because Sounds for.
Okay. How do I take that problem away? I'm not really do that because I don't understand, you know, the market size well enough yet.
Okay. I can help you understand the market size. So you just work on the things that they need you to work on.
But you're clear that what your goal is is to get to a partner. You're not gonna do this forever.
Right, there's not an indefinite list of things. They should be able to tell you upfront.
I need to I need to get excited about the market size. I need to meet and understand the whole team.
I need to understand the amount of money you're raising. Those should be 3 things that they need to do.
Maybe they have 4, but you want to know what they are. Right, so why can't you take me to a partner because I haven't done those 4 things yet.
Not the 10,000 other things they're going to think of over the next 3 years. So it's similar in that way.
You're just trying to get clarity on what things you need to do. They make a commitment to bring you to a partner.
If you do those 4 things.
Yeah.
Right? It's not a hundred more they're gonna think of later. That's the trick, I think.
Please do, yeah.
Yeah, I have a follow up question, but. If you allow me. Yeah, so whenever you contact them in the beginning, well, normally for me, I always try to get to the partner and if I'm not successful and I don't have any corrections or any introductions, then I go.
I'm a little bit down entering into the associate so you have any advice in order to how to do get an answer for the partner if I have no introductions to that.
To them.
Hard one.
Okay.
I guess my My instinctually answer is try to leverage the network better because You know, there are 4,400.
Portfolio companies. And it's rare for me to find a venture fund that hasn't invested in one of them.
Yeah.
Now, sometimes there's new venture funds. Sometimes there's new partners that they're relevant, so it does happen.
But I would, you know, somebody in the network probably does know something the network, right? That's the real advantage you have and you're managing director should be able to help you navigate that.
I'm happy to try to help you navigate that. I haven't shared my email, but it's David at techstars.
Dot com. If anybody wants to say hello, please do. I have David at text.
Dot com, cause I got here first.st So. I set up the IT systems and I didn't have to have the David D.
Cohen, like other people in the company do. So you're welcome to email me.
And try to help with connections, but. Your local team should be very good at that as well.
Use the network.
Okay, so basically the bike will always do by introduction instead of going out cold.
Yeah.
I mean, that's the reality of the universe that you're dealing with and it's 1 of the built in biases in the industry that sucks, but yes.
Okay, thank you.
Part of.
Hey David, Pardo here, Trinity. Really grateful for all the insight. So one of my questions is going to be is that I've noticed it's going to be is that I've noticed that at least through my partner level meetings things they worry there's a lot of worry from the fact that I'm a solo founder.
Yes.
So kind of don't progress beyond a certain point. Are there any dynamics that should be cognitive or best practices that you believe that we should follow.
Throughout our raising journey.
Yeah, 1st of all, I'd say it's really. Self-aware that, you, sort of, taking that feedback and even willing to ask that question.
I think it's shows a lot. I think I would use a lot of language about. You know the team that i have around me I would I would try to make sure I have a great team around me.
You know, if there's a great team around you and you're the only co-founder that's different than you're the only co-founder and there's nobody around you.
Right, so I would type up the people on my team. I would think about even maybe giving someone that title, even if it's very small ownership that they have.
Okay.
And I would also hit it very head on like you're doing here and I would say you know, this company is much more important to me than being the CEO or, you know, the most important figure in the context of the company.
You know i would say that out loud so that they know you look if i'm ever not the right person okay i'm i'm happy to play another role Here I am, 17 years in.
I'm chairman of the board. I do not have an executive role. I am not the CEO.
I was the 1st 5 years. Cool. Texas has more potential that way. Right.
And I think using language like that early on with people will help them alleviate again their fear, which is a lot of what you're dealing with.
Welcome.
Got it. Got it. Very much appreciated. Thank you.
Yeah.
Hi, this is Martin here. Am I, am I on you or am I talking over someone?
I just said.
Oh, apologies.
I'll come back to you, Martin. No problem.
Yeah, yup, yup. Thank you very much, David. This was this was great information.
Could you share some best practices? On how startups can balance securing enough fund without risking over valuation in their early fundraising rounds.
Yeah.
Let me just be sure I got that using reflected listening. You want me to talk about like how much money is too much to raise?
At too high of a validation or something like that. Is that what you're thinking about? Got it.
Yes. Yes. Yes.
Like I think you know you have to think about The the current round and the next round. So if I'm raising, you know, if I'm an early startup and someone's offering me 10 million dollars on a hundred 1 million pre money.
And I have no revenue and no nothing like the next round is gonna be really hard to raise. Like I'm gonna have to live up to that.
I'm using an extreme example on purpose. And I've seen this kill companies, right?
Because the investors like, no, no, no, we won't authorize that round because we're being deluded.
Because we overpaid last time, right? That's not Your fault, that's their fault, but it's kind of your fault for taking that.
Money. So I think you wanna be in market norms is my answer to your question. I think you should you should think that you're you know most likely going to see 20 to 40% dilution.
For the round you're doing. If you're only seeing 10. Sounds like a win.
You know, but it's out of market. Right? And so that may cause some issues.
It may feel good for a moment and it may not feel good next time. If it's 50%, like that's the low ball thing you saw earlier in the role play.
That's also way out of bounds. 20 to 40%. It's a wide range.
That's what you should expect. And if you live in that range, I don't think you're gonna have the problem you're talking about.
Is, am I getting to your question correctly?
Yup, yup, yup, yup, you'll be bastard. Thank you very much.
That was good. Okay.
Awesome. We go to Antonia and then Martin. So.
Thanks, Dave. Yeah, thanks, David. So sounds like there is no really any rule, when to have these 3 start conversation, if I'm an understanding, like you just play by year, it might happen the 1st time, we might happen the second 3rd time, just depends on the excitement you get back from the investors, is that right?
Yeah, if you are like me and you're an engineer and you like rules, I'll give you one.
You know like I have a rule like I can't eat a hamburger on a weekday.
As I get fat, that's my role. And engineers need rules, but I can do it on the weekend.
You know, so it just limits how many burgers I have, right? So you need a role.
So the rule is you ask how interested are you at investing on a scale of one to 10?
And if the answer is 6 or higher, you should ask. Because 6 or higher. It's really 8.
Or higher because they're hedging a bit. So use that question and if you want to rule.
If they say 6 and they mean 8 it's time to ask
Gotcha. Perfect. And just talking about rules. I need another rule because I'm an engineer.
Follow up to the question before I was I was at this conference so it was on stage and somebody asked how can we reach out to you and he said this is my email just for reach out to me directly I love to work with entrepreneurs.
Should we trust the cold email intro or it's much better? Should I, should I email him or it's better to still have a warm intro?
I think it's better to have a warm ensure that's meaningful. I think if the person entering you doesn't really know that person, it's not helpful, but if they're an investment of theirs or you know someone they work with or a friend I think it's always helpful.
I don't want it to stop you though because he's giving you an email address and So you try and the network in Texas is much bigger than people understand.
So there are a lot of connections out there if you sort of navigate it. I think it's always better to go through it's it's the reality of the world again.
It's a bias in the system and if you don't have it just go direct
Thank you.
Martin, you're finally up. How you done?
Wonderful. Thank you so much, dude. It was a lot of learning. Thank you.
I would like to ask. How are you think about? The angle of conversation with BC where I'm thinking not just about the next step but the step after speaking.
I'm talking to somebody who I know technically should be doing seat, seat, around checks. But they also do other checks right they also do series and then suddenly the investor says yeah I love it but come to me for series I really love to talk to yadda yadda yadda it's a no obviously and and and on the surface it's an obvious answer but any advice inside here that you may share at
the such a topic.
I think in general, if you walk away from this conversation, understanding investors are human and and and humans have fears and they value relationships.
I think you're in a better place. So I think the answer to this one is just build a relationship.
Okay. Yeah.
You're always fundraising at least 2 rounds ahead. Oh, I've raised for tech stars, you know, couple 1 billion in LP capital.
I'm I'm always working on the 10 million dollar check. I'm nowhere near it.
But I'm working on it, right? I'm working on the relationship, I'm having the dinner.
Okay.
So, the other comment I would make on that is a lot of people who do see checks but are saying come back to me for the A.
They end up doing the C check. And the reason they're saying it is it's a free option.
Keep me posted, I might do the A. I don't think I'm gonna do the seed, but then, oh, you're oversubscribed and oh, this is getting more exciting and oh, you closed another customer.
I'll jump into the seed, right? So you want to keep a warm, even someone who says no.
You're not gonna keep asking them to invest, but you're going to keep them updated and you're going to check in one more time at the end.
The leap.
Thank you.
Hi David, thank you for that. I was just thinking on what you just mentioned is How many times do you follow with this 1st commitment?
You know, like you are building the momentum. You are getting maybe second or 3rd invest investor with higher valuation do you go to these guys and say Hey, I built this.
I have this new commitments or you just wait for oversubscribe and build all that momentum because it will tell you thoroughly like one to month or that's another good question is how long are you doing this you know like 6 months per month
Yeah, well, 6 months is probably not a successful process, but a month or 2 is probably pretty normal and in this market 2 or 3 months is probably pretty normal.
You know, I think the, the high level answer I would give you is if your mindset is to make price the last thing.
Instead of the 1st thing, you're gonna be better off. You know if you make price the 1st thing you say we're raising a million on 3 million pre-money.
And then you have a bunch of conversations and you get to a million. Awesome. You're doing a million on 3 million pre money.
But then you have a bunch more conversations and you get to 2.5 million. That 3 million doesn't feel so good anymore.
It would have been better to have made price the last thing, not the 1st thing. So be in a place where you have the power when you start committing to price that's sort of the take away.
So, you know, if someone says that they're pushing you. They're trying to become the lead investor.
They're emerging because they feel the momentum and they're saying, you know, look, let's settle on a 3 million dollar price in a million dollar round.
Decision to make. You know, it's pretty easy to say, well, let's let's see how much money we end up raising before we fix a price.
Cause you're, you're starting to have the power. Some people will push you earlier. To commit to a price and then you just have a decision to make.
Do I love this investor? Do I feel good about this price? I'm like okay stopping in a million dollars?
But, you know, making that decision later is always better for you because you'll have the momentum and you'll have the power.
And you'll be in a better negotiating position than when you have no commitments. Just when people make the mistake of kind of negotiating too soon.
That's why I like this strategy.
Alright, I'm gonna do 2 more and then I'm gonna call it because I know people have other things and I do too.
Last 2, so you ritsa and then we'll go to Vincent and then we'll call it a day.
Yeah, me again. So David, I have a question regarding, it wasn't a lot on some other person that asked regarding how much money are you raising.
I feel that always. Question that puts me nervous if I'm I'm honest why because if I say a million and then they say why do you need our mail and I do have a plan about it and they I've gotten questions about why now I'm even in the house.
Yeah. Yeah.
Obviously with more money I can make more but you know how detail do I need to have that plan? On what I'm going to do with that money.
Good. Good question. Okay, so. There's 2 pieces to what you're asking about.
How details the plan and how much do I say, right, when I get asked this question. So remember what I started with over Ask is a big killer.
Say the amount of money that you're confident you can raise. I'm raising a million when the other when the investor says you should raise a million and a half you win Awesome.
The market is pushing you up. The market is begging you to oversubscribe. This is good, right?
Like they're trying to convince you to take more. That's a good thing. When you're saying I'm raising 5 million and they're saying you should just raise a million, that's a bad thing.
Right? You want this dynamic. So you say, look, I have a clear plan for what I'm going to do with a million dollars.
You have a spreadsheet. You've probably named it correctly. Fancy. Dot xl s right?
That's that's what it is. It's a spreadsheet where you've taken a guess at everything.
Yes.
Maybe using Google Docs and you just call it fantasy. But that we know one thing it's wrong, right?
But, but you have a model. Which is, you know, How are you gonna use this money and what you're gonna do with it?
And the issue is, okay, you're gonna give me a million dollars and I'm gonna produce this outcome.
I'm gonna get to this revenue. I'm gonna get this bar down the road and it's gonna be an exciting thing.
So you should be able to talk about that. When somebody says, well, you should raise a million and a half.
Interesting, yeah, if we had more capital, we could certainly do more, but we know we have a plan at the 1 million.
Let me think about that. You go back and you create fantasy 2 dot xLS. What will we do with a million and a half dollars?
And then you come back to say, if we had a million and a half, we could do these things.
Right? But if this is a condition of their commitment that you have to raise at least a million and a half.
Okay.
Thank you for the commitment. Right? You take it. You say, okay, I understand we need to raise a million and a half for you to do that.
They'll remember that you were only raising a million. And if you get to a million in a quarter, you're still exceeding that and they're they're gonna do it anyway.
Okay.
Right? They're just encourage you to take more money probably because they want to give you more money.
It's good.
Okay, and regarding that detail of that plan, would you suggest to have that? Like financial model with the potential of raising the whole round.
Well, you're not gonna have it when they throw a random number at you.
Yeah, but for example in this case that I have in mind like the 1 million should have that model developed with a million.
You go away in your friend. Yeah. Yes, for sure. Whatever your ask is, I think you should have a financial model that sort of says what you're gonna do with that.
Okay.
I don't think it needs to be in your pitch, but when someone asks you about it, you should be able to have an intelligent discussion about it for sure.
Okay, thank you.
Great, last question with Venson.
Yes. So is there anything in Brad Feld, Venture D or Kub or, sequence of sample road books that you disagree with?
And if so as a change because the current market dynamic coming down to tech stars
Well, venture deals, by Brad and Jason is on his 4th edition. And so it's been refreshed quite a bit.
And it's really, you know, yeah, the terms move around, but really for seed stage startups, they haven't moved around that much.
The number of deals that are happening has gone down. So valuations have not adjusted by 50% or anything.
There's plenty of crap I read in startup books that I don't agree with.
I'm sure there's something and do more faster that I wrote 15 years ago that is probably different.
And those of you that read it, please give me that feedback. But you know, generally speaking, I think all these books that are in the series that we've created sell more faster.
Do more faster, venture deals, startup communities. I think that the themes are all still very valid.
Thank you.
Alright, thank you. I always like to say at the end, thanks. You spent 2h with me.
Hopefully it was useful. I'm david@textars.com. Feel free to say hello.
If this strategy works for you, I always love to get a note. If you think that, Something I said still doesn't make sense or I could deliver it better.
That's how it's gotten better over the years. So please give me that feedback. I have to see all you guys on tech stars universe.
I'm on the discord. Feel free to DM me there anytime. We talk about a lot of this stuff in the fundraising channel.
AndThank you